Agenda and minutes of meetings

URL TBD via IRC
Tuesdays and Fridays

Next meeting: Friday, April 9 16:30 UTC +2/CEST 

AGENDA
_______________________________________________________________________

* Liz (Board) meeting
    Interesting discussion: Tahoe's ecosystem

* What do we do with the mailing lists?

  - Sajith has sent an email to info@osuosl.org, to see if they can
    advise us about fixing our mailing routing problems, or help with
    migrating to their infrastructure.

  - Probably interesting: tahoe-lafs-weekly-news was alive until 2017
    March or so.  Should we revive it, or consider it of historical
    interest only?
  
    https://tahoe-lafs.org/trac/tahoe-lafs/wiki/TahoeLAFSWeeklyNews
    https://tahoe-lafs.org/cgi-bin/mailman/listinfo/tahoe-lafs-weekly-news

_______________________________________________________________________


Minutes of Past Meetings

APRIL 

Tuesday, April 6
_______________________________________________________________________

* Web Dev take-home assesment/evaluation
    Making people do unpaid work without at least offering feedback is bad
        We will offer candidates the option to receive this feedback
    To avoid a subjective decision, a points system with criteria was designed
        Will be kept sekrit for now 

* Update: Release 1.15 w/ Release Manager (meejah)
    Was actually released; announced on mailing list

* Which brings us to the mailing list . . . 
    . . . 
    . . .
        
* Communicating with Ajibola (Testing and Release Manager)
    We want to hear more from him, possibly on a daily basis 
    Should use IRC/Slack and have meejah (core dev) and Jean-Paul's (core dev)
    emails
    Ideally, the release process should be a deterministic build 


Friday, April 2 
_______________________________________________________________________

* New Monthly Report: 
    https://github.com/tahoe-lafs/community/blob/main/Monthly%20Reports/march-2021.md

* Web Developer hiring 
    We have designed a test, appended to 
        https://github.com/tahoe-lafs/community/blob/main/project-notes/website.txt
    A repo has been created to receive the candidate's contributions 
        https://github.com/tahoe-lafs/web-design

* Ajibola (Testing and Release Manager) update 
    * This week's objectives will be going through the Release Checklist with 
    Sajith (core/dev). 
        Continuing w/documentation, playing w/Tahoe grid and server 
        
    * Tentative plans for the next 5+ months:
        1) Improve onboarding, using his own experience as a reflection point
            Has already noticed missing or broken paths/libraries needing update  
        2) Create or improve documentation for set-up, usage, installation
        3) Test and releasing work 
            Improve unit testing 
            Improve integration tests; perhaps look into i2p/Tor 
            Automation of processes in GitHub Actions/CI 

* Test grid discussion revisit 
    Ajibola and community member could collaborate on this
    Suggested: make sure there is a roadmap before beginning 
    It would be 1) setting up Tahoe and 2) Server infrastructure ops 
    We have the servers 
    We could plan this to take place within the next 1 - 2 months 

* Applying for funding - discussion ideas 
    Should Tahoe-LAFS start to provide funding, rather than apply for it?
    Could another strategy be to match awarded funds?

MARCH

Tuesday, March 30
_______________________________________________________________________

* We had a super productive discussion that came out of the concept of "ticket
triaging", introduced by Jean-Paul (core dev) at the last meeting 
  * meejah (core dev) has volunteered for the first edition of Ticket Triage - yay!
  * The ticket triage process will be captured and put into the Dev Guide 
    One person is assigned per week to look at the tickets that were filed in the 
    previous week and tries to place the tickets with owners and milestones.
    They will also collect tickets that might warrant further discussion to 
    present at the next meeting. Yay governance!
    Example ticket list (March 2021 tickets): https://tahoe-lafs.org/trac/tahoe-lafs/query?status=assigned&status=closed&status=new&status=reopened&time=2021-03-01..2021-03-31&col=id&col=summary&col=status&col=type&col=priority&col=milestone&col=component&desc=1&order=id
  * Reorganized milestones on the Trac Roadmap
    https://tahoe-lafs.org/trac/tahoe-lafs/roadmap
  * Also discussed:
    The recreational nature of Tahoe-LAFS participation
    Are there benefits to giving up freedom? 
    Should there be some form of project leader?
    Discussion about meeting agenda items having concrete outputs/state changes
  
* Monthly 1-on-1s with Community Manager
    These will take place informally to provide check-ins/vents/suggestions




Friday, March 26
_______________________________________________________________________

* Monthly report items
    Further development on GBS protocol
    Port is likely at 80%(!)
    txi2p situation and more testing
    Jitsi Hosting
    Testing and Release Manager hiring and onboarding
    Apply to Google Season of Docs

* Important stuff is usually captured in the form of tickets
    Future plans to consolidate knowledge into Discourse
    Suggestion to look at tickets and triage weekly (after reaching steady
    state)

* Google Season of Docs entered (fingers crossed!)
    https://github.com/tahoe-lafs/community/edit/main/project-notes/season-of-docs-2021/project-proposal.md

* Institutional memory in terms of other grants and events needs to be collected
    This could be published on the website
    Serve as a reference for other things we can apply for or participate in

* Asynchronously decide on new meeting times, with an emphasis on including
    meejah (core/dev)

* Should we adopt a tool for formal (or at least structured) HTTP API (eg GBS) specification
    Not at this time; maybe later
    Web API should be gotten rid of and documentation cleand up. That will be a 
    giant project

Tuesday, March 23
_______________________________________________________________________

* Onboarding estimate
    Complexity and uniqueness of stacks determine onboarding time 
    For reference, large companies like Uber/Google are approx. 6 months
    Tahoe is about 3 - 6 months, with some areas remaining murky for years
    Understand this idea for recruitment/retention 
* FOR REFERENCE: Org Chart and role descriptions
    https://github.com/tahoe-lafs/community/tree/main/roles
* Feature requests
    The bottleneck on feature requests is capable Tahoe developers
    Code fellowship and other initiatives can create these new devs, as current
    devs are already generally at capacity
    Aspiration can sometimes fund, if it's already a part of objectives/budget
    Otherwise, the requesting organization should have a renumeration strategy 
    It helps if the requesting organization has a Tahoe dev on their team
* Season of Docs Update Notes
    A 2nd volunteer in addition to Community Manager will be sourced, and paid
    a stipend.
    Project proposal, milestones and metrics have been chosen
    https://github.com/tahoe-lafs/community/blob/main/project-notes/season-of-docs-2021/season-of-docs-notes.txt
* I2P/Tor integration/testing
    "Good unit tests solve 98% of your problems"
    i2p and Tor unit tests leave much to be desired
    removing Mock from i2p unit tests
    the possibility exists now to greatly improve txi2p testing
* GBS RFP
    Will run draft by experienced RFP readers at LA
    Scope:
        Tahoe-LAFS codebase 
        GBS doc 
        https://tahoe-lafs.readthedocs.io/en/latest/proposed/http-storage-node-protocol.html
        URL doc
        https://tahoe-lafs.readthedocs.io/en/latest/specifications/url.html?highlight=url
        Foolscap security properties (not codebase)
        Peer authentication
            Certificate expiration time and other parameters
            Use of SPKI to provide certificate authentication properties
        Message authentication
        Message secrecy
        Transition process from Foolscap to GBS with eye to vulnerabilities
        Possible configuration of TLS parameters offering forward secrecy
        Potential current exploitable active vulnerabilities
        Potential security gaps in user interaction
        Security assumptions, potential future weaknesses in design and implementation
        Strength of existing security controls and potential improvements that could be made
        etc.
        Comparison of the Storage Protocol vs. HTTP TLS
            Because GBS copies Foolscap as closely as possible, it might inherit
            security flaws

Friday, March 19
_______________________________________________________________________

* Kick-off with Testing and Release Manager
    Emphasize use of IRC
    Reminder to make a Trac account
    First task: Try to install Tahoe, then go through the release checklist
    Sajith (dev) will be available for 30 minutes a week for four weeks to
    check-in
    May-Lee (community) will be available once weekly for four weeks to check in
* Status of Tahoe-LAFS 1.15.0
    Will be addressed asynchronously with Meejah (dev)
* GBS discussion
    Why the design chooses to use RESTful structure and our faith in SHA256
    What is the motivation behind replacing Foolscap with an HTTP-based RPC
        Performance issues - Foolscap is slow due to its complexity
        Community - Foolscap has a smaller community and therefore fewer 
        implementations, less development
        Complexity - although Foolscap offers some potentially valuable features,
        its complexity makes it hard to test and maintain
* Possible summit item: 100-year cryptography and building Tahoe on top of other
    cryptographic primitives
* Meetings are officially 45 minutes long (more than 30, less than 60)

Tuesday, March 16
_______________________________________________________________________

* We will donate $10/mo to FOSSHost
* Release/Testing Task List
    We will schedule the closest we can get to an all-hands
    First two weeks will be him trying out the release process outlined here:
    https://tahoe-lafs.readthedocs.io/en/latest/release-checklist.html
    And caputuring his experience
* Great Black Swamp protocol pre-pre-review
    Needs to be improved as much as possible before sent to an auditing team
* New possible future role for code maintainer
    Can be structured like a fellowship (i.e., monthly stipend vs. hourly)
    Would be a great way to retain expertise of current or past contributors
    More self-directed rather than a concrete list of tasks
    Could take learnings from T & R Manager to design program
* Specifically scoped projects should get away from hourly rates
* Incoming 2021: Least Authority might have some feature requests
    Improved mutable
    Append only
    Storage plugins system


Friday, March 12
_______________________________________________________________________

* We will apply for OTF Usability Lab https://apply.opentech.fund/usability-lab/
    We are most interested in a usability audit/Testing
    Possibly this process will also illuminate aspects of User Research and UX
    design
    We'll be in touch with members of Least Authority, who did something similar
    for Magic Folder, to get guidance

* Plans for txi2p maintenance
    Notes added to ticket https://tahoe-lafs.org/trac/tahoe-lafs/ticket/3633

* Twisted io_uring / async disk I/O
  - https://twistedmatrix.com/pipermail/twisted-python/2021-March/065545.html
  - https://github.com/twisted/twisted/pull/1546
  Jean-Paul will keep an eye out for developments and inform us
  Because what ends up in Twisted will affect Tahoe, it's important that we
  join the discussion
  The Tahoe code in this area will have to be read and understood a bit better
    https://github.com/tahoe-lafs/tahoe-lafs/blob/master/src/allmydata/storage/server.py

* Someone has a Docker Hub account https://hub.docker.com/r/pataquets/tahoe-lafs
  We should get in touch with them and see what's up

Tuesday, March 9
_______________________________________________________________________
* May-Lee will apply for Season of Docs and ensure we participate as far as
    possible, according to our capacity.

* GitLab migration will be given real push this week.
    This first phase will be worth $2000 USD paid upon satisfactory completion
    of migration of:
        Issues(tickets)
        Issue history, including attachemnts, patches and comments
        Deliverable is a program that accomplishes that
        It should take under one business week (5 days)
    More information on the full four-phase project:
    https://github.com/tahoe-lafs/community/blob/main/project-notes/gitlab-migration.txt

Friday, March 5
_______________________________________________________________________
* Jean-Paul (core/dev) has limited availability for the next two weeks

* Sajith (core/dev) continues working on the mailing list
    we have 308 subscribers

* Pre-audit meetings postponed until sometime March - May
    Cryptographers will be solicited via IRC, Discourse and mailing list
    Prospective cryptographers will be required to read:
    https://tahoe-lafs.readthedocs.io/en/latest/proposed/http-storage-node-protocol.html
    Commit to having 2, 1 hour conversations over 1 week (remote)
    Add their perspective as another set of eyes to the protocol, including:
    What do they think could be different about the protocol?
    What might have been missed, in terms of possible issues? Opportunites?
    Is there any horrendous flaw here before we get audited?
    And generally get the protocol as honed as possible before audit

* Documentation improvements suggestions
    Less, and better written
    For now, start with topic guides
        Installation
        Consuming storage
        Providing storage
        How to run a friend net 
        Running hybrid local cloud grid, with a backup in the cloud
        Integrating Tahoe-LAFS as a storage layer in your app
    As documentation is written/tested, it can reveal ways in which Tahoe can be 
    improved, so it's a good opportunity to generate more tickets

* Community will suggest domain names, for temporary hosting
    Should come fron decentralized/freedom-supporting world

Tuesday, March 2
_______________________________________________________________________ 
* Search for a cryptographer begins
  For reference: 
  https://tahoe-lafs.readthedocs.io/en/latest/proposed/http-storage-node-protocol.html

* Yves' skills will be useful for fixing Tahoe instrumentation related
  to deployment of Test Grid as well as assitance with a self-hosted GitLab
    He uses Ansible and our preference is NixOS
              
* Trac migration project will be offered to the community as a project
  There needs to be a coordinated means of communicating when such
  opportunities are available
    IRC
    Discourse
    Mailing list
  
* For the upcoming Summit, think of agenda topics.
  Meejah (dev) had the idea of clearing up the philosophy of ideas such
  as file deletion and how it pertains to old and new code.
    i.e., can a ever be truly guaranteed to have been deleted? is having
    such a feature therefore misleading?
  
* Website will be getting a redesign so consider "Must-have" features
  For reference: https://sajith.github.io/tahoe-website/

FEBRUARY 2021
Friday, February 26
_______________________________________________________________________  
* GitLab migration meeting w/Six Feet Up
  It is out of our budget, so we will decline
  Sajith will examine it more closely Monday and Tuesday

* Meeting w/Liz 25.02.2021
  Stronger push to inform community of opportunities w/Tahoe
  In case we can't get tahoe-lafs.org from Brian Warner, we should choose
  tahoe-lafs.xyz or other suggestions (should that be taken as well)
  Brian Warner, Daira and Zooko contacted Re: Protocol Spec
    Told meetings were going to be 2nd week of March
    If we can't get one of them, we will find a cryptographer
              
* Monthly report items
    Need help reporting for Development
      Python 3 Porting continues
      Now using Coveralls.io (instead of Codecove.io)
      Test coverage has expanded
      Jean-Paul has replaced some ancient custom code for Windows with 
      functions offered by pywin32 library
      
Tuesday, February 23
_______________________________________________________________________

* Still waiting on FOSSHost; Discourse is being worked on
       
* Onboarding new Testing and Release Manager will be done through tickets

* Summit 2021 - TBD     
    Montreal in September
    Propose agenda items here: 
    https://github.com/tahoe-lafs/community/blob/main/summit-2021-suggested-agenda.txt
        
* Meeting w/Carol tomorrow w/Sajith & May-Lee

* Mailing list is kind of broken today, because the machine hosting
  tahoe-lafs.org does not do outbound email delivery well.  Jean-Paul
  and Sajith will address that problem.

* Who uses Tahoe-LAFS these days?
     Users of I2P - 1800 views on a setup post on I2p forum
     PyPi downloads
     We will get list of projects/other user details from Liz
     Likely too soon to do user surveys

February 19, 2021
_______________________________________________________________________
* RFP scheduling - Meejah, Sajith, Jean-Paul will schedule among themselves
    Best around 2nd week of March
    Need to have one cryptographer on hand
        
* Test Grid servers will be set up at a future date for users

* A short description of Tahoe-LAFS:
    "We are a FOSS decentralized file store that has been around for
    over a decade. Tahoe-LAFS creates redundant copies of parts of a
    file, encrypts them and sends them to multiple servers. This design
    allows for data privacy and security from multiple attacks."

* GitLab migration probably will take place via contractor

* Community Roadmap and Resources Document
    Add detailed Development view with links to tickets etc. on sheet 3

* We will seek to release a Python 3 supporting txip

* Financial transparency: current disclosure on BTC explorer is good for now

* Testing and Release Manager consultant position filled

February 16, 2021
_______________________________________________________________________
* BASICS hiring direction
    We decided to choose a Testing and Release person
    We will keep in touch with the other person and Jessica Rose for future
    roles

* What do we need from a Web Developer?
    We need to do the work and decide what we like
        Look at Dribbbl or Behance etc.
    Whatever they give us must be maintainable somehow
        Must use GitHub/GitLab, some kind of VCS
    Strong preference towards designer/front end
    Need a proper API
    Our main site could just be a GitLab Pages
    
* "We should have a self-hosted GitLab"
    Least Authority's GitLab migration took two days
    Should we forget about GitLab.com?

* Roadmap - tahoe-lafs.org/trac/tahoe-lafs/ticket/3604
    Tahoe will possibly be ultimately a federated model
        Python 3 Porting
        Getting rid of Foolscap
        Grid Manager
        Accounting system (User IDs and Leases)
        Web UI redesign
        Append only feature
        Deletion feature

February 12, 2021
_______________________________________________________________________
* No progress on Discourse, Fosshost or Transfer of Tahoe-LAFS.org billing

* Will meet with sales person at CircleCI

* Small Grants program will worked on and then presented
    
* RFP for security audit for node specification protocol
    First step: devs block out a week of time for completion of the
    storage protocol spec. Sometime in the first half of March. Possible
    participants:
        Jean-Paul (available)
        Meejah (will ask)
        Sajith (available)
        Daira (will ask)
        Brian (will ask)

* 2021 Community Roadmap - will be expanded and published
    At least one summit
    User Test Grid
    Creating a bounties program
    Hosting a grants program (Outreachy?)
    Website/UX
    Documentation - Two foci: Developers and Users
    GitLab migration - may or may not be possible; alternatives
    GitHub presence
    Strategy for project sustainability and organic growth

February 9, 2021
_______________________________________________________________________

* What should we do with the tahoe-dev mailing list?
    We will try out hosting a forum on Discourse to take over the main
    function of the old mailing list

* Should we use a paid CircleCI account? https://circleci.com/pricing/
    We will try upgrading to a "performance" account

* Thoughts about a community-run Jitsi instance?
    We will apply to fosshost.org and try their Jitsi

* Crafting a structure for the Small Grants program
    We want to utilize resources such as Le Wagon to build a funnel
    However, we should choose appropriate tickets/projects
    Namely, Web/UI focused projects can be spun out

* We now have $250 USD/mo in the form of a credit card via Aspiration
    We will now begin to get all accounts under one account
