# Tahoe Governance 2022-08-09

[Link to This Document](https://hackmd.io/@May-Lee/H1SL_ayCq/edit)

----------

**PRESENT:**
  
  Meejah, Jean-Paul, Ccx
  
----------

**ACTION ITEMS/RESOLUTIONS:**  

**DEFERRED ITEMS:**  

----------

**AGENDA:**

    * Discussed having consistent policy for invoice detail level across all contributors
    * Discussed how Tahoe-LAFS board probably needs to change something to keep project sustainable
    * Discussed idea of going over these things at summit in October
        * Participants in the discussion didn't feel agency to conclude much on this front
    * Discussed the idea of having a project roadmap and how this ties in with budget transparency
    * Mentioned https://github.com/tahoe-lafs/tahoe-capabilities now has a release (but maybe does not guaranteed API stability)
        * Current plan is to land changes in ZKAPAuthorizer, magic-folder, and GridSync to start using this
        * Make changes as necessary to support that effort and then add some docs
    * Talked about which platform to move the project to (GitLab, Gitea, etc)
        * Gitea looks appealing based on its simplicity but no one is volunteering to deploy it for us
        * There is some discussion of [support for federation](https://discourse.gitea.io/c/federation/10) in some of these systems which would be nice
        * Also https://salut-a-toi.org/
        * We don't expect GitLab to join this effort until others lead the way
        * 

**GREETINGS AND SMALL TALK (always first 3 - 5 minutes)**  

UPDATES:
* May-Lee (May-Lee): 
    * OpenCollective Invoices paid

URGENT:
* Please file all unfiled invoices (May-Lee)
    * This includes myself

GOVERNANCE/DISCUSSION:
* Itemization on invoices (May-Lee, optional, max 15 minutes)
    * OpenCollective invoices are not as transparent as our internal invoices, which generally include hours worked, hourly rate, and work completed
        * https://opencollective.com/tahoe-lafs/expenses/85390
        * https://opencollective.com/tahoe-lafs/expenses/88370
    * TODO: check w/Liz to see if, as an admin, she can see the itemization on the invoices, which is why no itemizations appear for us
    * If not, we need to decide what information we need to see on an invoice
* Transparent budget for the public (May-Lee, optional, max 10 minutes)
    * Community members/former donors want to know how Tahoe spends its money
    * We will need this information done correctly in order to keep legitimizing the project from a sustainability perspective (become a non-profit? be absorbed by another foundation? etc.)
    * TODO: What information do we think the public MUST know? What information do we want to keep private?

----------

[x] Create a document from this template
[x] Enter the link
[x] Edit the document
[x] Hold the meeting and add notes
[] Export as .md
[] Push to Git
[] Delete document #Tahoe Meeting Template