**2022-04-05** 

----------

**PRESENT:**

May-Lee, Jean-Paul

----------

**ACTION ITEMS/RESOLUTIONS:**  
- Ready to publish security review; Cure53 approved all code changes on issues; remaining 6 are essentially outside of Tahoe's threat model
- May-Lee to do closing interview with BASICS
- Jean-Paul working on garbage collection for Test Grid upstream on NixOS 
- Possible meeting with ToB at the end of April

**DEFERRED ITEMS:**  
- Fixing I2P - but it needs to happen
- For the future, SOW template for proposals from the community to do work
- Thinking of other ways a 3rd party, such as ToB or Cure53, could help the project in the future
- Second system syndrome: the horrible first thing that you hate and want to change completely, is horrible in specific ways for good reasons, then reality shows up. But then you ignore reality and try to make something new but it has the same problems.
----------

**AGENDA:**

UPDATES:  
* We're hiring as part of our sustainability plan
    * PM role - Pete found someone (Greg) that we will meet with next Governance meeting
    * DA role - [I wrote this JD](https://hackmd.io/@May-Lee/H1J2nF4Xq)
    * Check-in - did meejah get his contract?

* Giving feedback on the BASICS program

* Jean-Paul working on GC in the Test Grid this week (working upstream on NixOs config)

URGENT:  
Wrap up Verifications  
* What do we need still?
    * What would you see as the agenda for the meeting? As far as I can see, we need feedback from you now about the report finalization.
    * meejah & JP look at comments and discuss them/then close
    * Decide as a project whether we want to say that we did or didn't address something
    * 7 they haven't commented on; the rest are thumbs up
        * Follow-up with 26 
        * Then 6 are not able to externally verify
            * Issues outside of threat model/scope of Tahoe
            * Cure53's report outlines the threat model of Tahoe better than Tahoe does 
            * How dangerous is it really?
                * User education failure

GOVERNANCE/DISCUSSION:  

* Feedback on org structure/processes
    * Don't want to manage or make too many decisions
    * Weird land of money that changes everything
    * Neat essay/blogpost about gifts - you can't make a gift better by giving money to the gift giver
        - how do you get better free software?

* We should fix I2P

* Architecture diagram/other project needs:
    * Trail of Bits: specialized practices in low-level engineering, binary code, blockchain, and cryptography
    * We requested a meeting to discuss a project to document our code architecture
        * Possibility for future collaboration
    * Why would this architecture diagram be helpful?
        - Get people onboard, help new contributors, help them understand what Tahoe is, introduce it to people and help them begin contributing
            - "here's a 1 page explanation of some sort, either visual or textual or some combination, showing the meaningful abstractions in the system"
            - "I'm an expert in CRDTs and I want to add append-only, where do I look"
            - Value is making this, and learning this
        - Learn about the coherent abstractions in Tahoe
            - Abstraction not well-represented in Tahoe
            - JP and meejah can't produce all of the abstractions together, likely
        - Is it going to be valuable?
            - Where this has been done for other projects?
                - Look at ToB's other projects
                - If Tahoe had this, a big list of questions that would be easy to answer
                - Should we push towards new architecture for Tahoe?
                    - easier to understand, abstractions make sense
                    - fix bugs; bugs love to hide in messes
                    - improve performance
                    - currently not easy to implement new stuff because of the crypto protocol woven through the codebase
                    - Do it correctly, and everything is great

