## Special meeting: pre-verification check-in with Cure53  
**2022-03-30**  

----------

**PRESENT:**  
### Cure53:  
Mario, Mike  
### Tahoe-LAFS:  
Jean-Paul, meejah, May-Lee   

----------

**ACTION ITEMS/RESOLUTIONS:**  
* Cure53: Mario or Greg will be tagged in and verification will continue over the next days  
* Tahoe team will decide if they want to publish the report  
* Request Fenn to return to testing after he finishes his release automation work

**DEFERRED ITEMS:**  
* Revisiting the documentation strategy
* Creating an architecture diagram of the project
----------

**AGENDA:**  

* Cure53 meeting, then Mike and Mario leave the Tahoe meeting to hop on their own call  
* Tahoe-LAFS in-project meeting  

UPDATES:  
* meejah's contract limit for 2022 was approved and a contract should be on its way
* Pete Fein (wearpants/Snake Devs) is hiring documentation and/or PM, possibly
* Delay on adding Edison to the project

URGENT:  

GOVERNANCE/DISCUSSION:  

* Cure53 meeting
    * Cure53 team added as reviewers
    * Tahoe-LAFS team explains: which issues were fixed and which were open and our approach
    * Cure53 will verify fixes in the Tahoe-LAFS secret repo via means of adding a checkmark/other emoji to the issues and we can do another meeting later
    * Verifications based generally solely on code changes in PRs/commits
    * Cure53 cannot verify certain types of remediations, such as wontfix or discussion-based resolutions; Tahoe must state their verification position (WIP, wontfix, works as intended) publicly as their own (not cure53) in the report 
    * Within a week, Cure53 will have their answers and we can work on publishing the report
    * There can be a "reasonable" amount of back-and-forth

* Tahoe-LAFS meeting
    * Discussion about guidance practices for new contractors
        * New contributors might need to take responsibility for reaching out for mentorship or we need to have more mentorship
        * We need to set our expectations and get them met
        * Assign specific technical tasks for more self-contained work
    * Documentation
        * JP had ideas https://github.com/tahoe-lafs/tahoe-lafs/commit/a60a8ac49e8b5c73861001b2b50be27eebfe3d44
        * Should we have a new contributor do the documentation, since they have a fresh perspective
        * A technical writer would still need a lot of guidance from the project
    * Architecture diagram for the project
        * Could be user-friendly, top-level stuff
        * Tell what the protocols are that are in place, if people don't want to read Python
        * Tools discussed: nomnoml, seq diagram, graph tool
        * We could understand the state machine of Tahoe better
        * This tool could update the diagram automatically upon code changes (Automat mentioned)
        * Could lead to reimplementations or changing up of crypto