**2022-03-15**

----------

**PRESENT:**
meejah, Jean-Paul, May-Lee

----------

**ACTION ITEMS/RESOLUTIONS:**  
* Follow up with Snake Devs re: Grid Manager
* Fake deadline in a week for audit verification (March 22)
* Follow up re: meejah's contract

**DEFERRED ITEMS:**  
"everything"

----------

**AGENDA:**

UPDATES: 
* still working on getting meejah's contract limit raised
* my invoices

URGENT:
* Let's focus on the audit stuff for now and make a fake deadline for March 22

GOVERNANCE/DISCUSSION:
* Are we ready to meet with Cure53 for audit stuff?
    * They said we could have up to a year, but we don't want to aim for a year, although we're not sure how long it will take
    * Whatever can be done for the rest of March, we can do that
    * As long as it's not a total catstrophe it's okay to have some stuff undone
        * Not-fixed-by-now stuff is likely fairly okay
        * We have already agreed to the fix-by-documentation strategy
    * Let's get a meeting on the calendar for end of March, because otherwise team members are away at the end of April and then we have to wait until they return

----------
