## April 2021

This report was produced by the Community Manager and covers discussions and decisions from April 1, 2021 to April 30, 2021.

+ Whenever possible, titles/roles are mentioned alongside names
+ Governance was simple but transparent, and all decisions can be found on this public repo
+ Although 1-on-1 discussions occurred, the results of these discussions were presented for discussion and ultimately published
+ Any community member can comment on these decisions by means of a pull request

### Summary

April's unspoken goal became to push for more formal governance workflows and a better
sense of where the project is going overall. While vitally important, the Python 3
port may have distracted from a focus on the bigger picture. The Community Manager
completed a series of all-team 1-on-1s this month, and finally got a chance to meet
with some core contributors, taking note of everyone's insights and perspective. 

As an observation, Tahoe-LAFS is a fully-remote, asynchronous organization with no
formal onboarding process at this time. This creates a backdrop of challenges.
By the first week of May, we will have 3 team members with 6 months' or less tenure 
at Tahoe. Therefore, the discussions that happened in April related to evaluating 
and advancing new contributors appropriately within the organization will help provide 
a foundation for further capacity building.

Governance and Community:
+ In a push for more project consensus, Nuts & Bolts on Tuesdays will be used to highlight governance issues
+ Friday's Nuts & Bolts will be focused on bikeshedding and include a guest who presents a Lightning Talk
+ Ticket triaging begins
+ Interest was expressed in doing a "Tahoe Then and Now" podcast
+ We developed an evaluation process for choosing a Web Developer 
+ Discussions: What is our larger project goal? `/project-notes/broader-strategy.txt`

Communications:
+ Jean-Paul (core dev) suggested we move docs to Cryptpad.fr
+ We will try to stay off Google and other such products
+ Application rejected from Google Season of Docs
+ Sajith (core dev) and meejah (core dev) suggest documentation improvements,
including reorganizing the man page and creating a CONTRIBUTORS.md file
+ Sajith continues to solve our mailing list issues

Development:
+ Ajibola (testing and release manager) starts automation and documentation of 
release process
+ Port is likely at 90% (!)
+ GBS Storage Node Protocol Spec completed - Thanks meejah, Sajith and Jean-Paul!
+ Supporting Python 2.7 using 32 bit Windows to keep the CI running until port is complete
   
Finance:
+ Prefer not to apply for grants, but to provide funding/fund-matching
+ All of the free projects we use will receive monthly donations of $10 USD 

Upcoming items in May:
+ Hiring and onboarding of Web Developer
+ Complete and publish RFP for storage node protocol security audit
+ Continue Summit planning and announce by end May (tentatively scheduled for September of 2021)
+ Complete draft of Development roadmap 2021

Ongoing Q2:
+ Deploy User Test Grid
+ Hire a code maintainer for Code Maintainer Fellowship
+ Complete draft of an onboarding process for new Contributors
+ Begin post-port objectives
