## July 2021

This report was produced by the Community Manager and covers discussions and 
decisions from July 1, 2021 to July 31, 2021.

+ Whenever possible, titles/roles are mentioned alongside names
+ Governance was simple but transparent, and all decisions can be found on this 
public repo
+ Although 1-on-1 discussions occurred, the results of these discussions were 
presented for discussion and ultimately published
+ Any community member can comment on these decisions by means of a pull request

### Summary

July represented the massive fruition of multiple efforts after a period of
general turbulence and adustment, as evidenced by the fact that July has a monthly 
report. What happened in May and June? We may never know. Onward, August!

As a Community Manager, I was most excited to see new contributors join the team
and an uptick in contributions all around. We have essentially completed our long-
awaited Python 3 port and are paving the way for implementations in other languages.
A security audit, new releases and return to (some) distros is on the horizon.
 
We finally got control over our mailing list.

There are still other long-planned projects that have yet to happen, but that's 
something to look forward to, isn't it?

Governance and Community:
+ Formal advancement strategy discussed for new contributors - 
thank you Jean-Paul (core dev)
+ Two new contributors began projects aaronjanse (NixOS packaging) and 
jpds (Gentoo overlay)
+ damianmiles looking for help: 
https://tahoe-lafs.discourse.group/t/set-up-for-storing-and-moving-media-files/32/2
+ We do not believe in collecting user data of any kind
+ Our Technical Assessment was published - thank you meejah (core dev) - 
https://github.com/tahoe-lafs/community/issues/9#issuecomment-886648737

Communications:
+ Mailing list control has been returned to us - thank you Sajith! (core dev)
+ User survey to steer branding created by Anxhelo (Web dev) - 
https://cloud.ura.design/apps/forms/Qet3iaZKmrcCLSdY

Development:
+ Yash (documentation) did his first EVER PR on the Tahoe-LAFS codebase
https://github.com/tahoe-lafs/tahoe-lafs/pull/1096
+ We therefore have gained serious momentum on our documentation goals
+ SOWs for security audit trickling in; more vendors contacted; RfP published
https://tahoe-lafs.discourse.group/t/request-for-proposal-for-third-party-security-audit/33
+ Hiring and onboarding of Fenn (Testing and Release Manager) via BASICS/Internews
+ Loose ends on Python 3 port being tied up 
+ I2P integration being added and a foolscap release
   
Finance:
+ It is our belief that all humans have the moral right to form their own work 
contracts independently

Upcoming items in August:
+ Anxhelo (Web Developer from BASICS/Internews) to complete new landing page and 
branding
+ RfP for security audit closes, vendor to be chosen
+ We'll do a meetup in August in Berlin or I'll be at my favorite Biergarten by 
myself with a good book
+ Complete draft of Development roadmap 2021

Ongoing Q3:
+ Deploy User Test Grid
+ Get Security Audit; begin GBS implementation
+ By my word, we will have a summit

