## May 2021

This report was produced by the Community Manager and covers discussions and decisions from May 1, 2021 to May 31, 2021.

+ Whenever possible, titles/roles are mentioned alongside names
+ Governance was simple but transparent, and all decisions can be found on this public repo
+ Although 1-on-1 discussions occurred, the results of these discussions were presented for discussion and ultimately published
+ Any community member can comment on these decisions by means of a pull request

### Summary

Laying ground work for Tahoe after Python 3 port

New team member onboarded and others to be evaluated. Relationship Python 3 porting continues
Now driven by integration tests
Efforts mostly in the area of the CLI implementation
An attempt to get better performance, re examining hiring processes and onboarding procedures
Ended contract with “Testing & Release Engineer” hired by Internews/BASICS
Planning to try to fill the role again after trying to improve the hiring process


Governance and Community:
+ Separation of meetings into a governance meeting and a less formal discussion/ideation-oriented meeting seems to be working
+ First Lightning Talk given by 
+ Ticket triaging begins
+ Interest was expressed in doing a "Tahoe Then and Now" podcast
+ We developed an evaluation process for choosing a Web Developer 
+ Re-evaluated hiring and onboarding practices 
+ New contributors teratorn and LoneTech
+ Tested onboarding checklist with Anxhelo 

Communications:
+ #tahoe-lafs now on Libera.chat
+ Pantherscore.com w/Hernán Romero
+ 
+ 
+ Sajith continues to solve our mailing list issues

Development:
+ Ajibola (testing and release manager) starts automation and documentation of 
release process
+ Port is likely at 90% (!)
+ GBS Storage Node Protocol Spec completed - Thanks meejah, Sajith and Jean-Paul!
+ Supporting Python 2.7 using 32 bit Windows to keep the CI running until port is complete
   
Finance:
+ Prefer not to apply for grants, but to provide funding/fund-matching
+ All of the free projects we use will receive monthly donations of $10 USD 

Upcoming items in June:
+ Possible hiring and onboarding of Documentation person
+ Possible hiring of Testing and Release Manager replacement via BASICS
+ Complete and publish RFP for storage node protocol security audit
+ Continue Summit planning and announce by end June (tentatively scheduled for September of 2021)
+ Complete draft of Development roadmap 2021

Ongoing Q2:
+ Deploy User Test Grid
+ Hire a code maintainer for Code Maintainer Fellowship

+ Begin post-port objectives


MAY

Friday, May 28
_______________________________________________________________________
PRESENT: Jean-Paul, Sajith, May-Lee

NON-GOVERNANCE
Web Dev update: 
    Onboarding doc seems relatively comprehensive
        https://cryptpad.fr/pad/#/3/pad/edit/f130ce6cd2dee0a329f847f5982e8951/
    A checklist is good a the beginning, but we need to communicate the broader
    vision of Tahoe (perhaps this will come out of the Summit)
    Anxhelo (web dev) is making tickets, doing PRs, recreating assets
    We might want to keep the Tahoe logo, but want it updated
        Agree that we like it
        Jean-Paul (core dev) wonders what the symbology/story of it is
        May-Lee (community manager) wants it to be "more metal"
Waiting on Radicle VCS to speak at a Lightning Talk:
    https://radicle.xyz/ 
    FOSS P2P code collaboration built with Git and decentralized with opt-in
    Ethereum 
Other non-governance topics?
    May-Lee (community manager) recommends 2.5 hr podcast on Moon Math:
        https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ycK3AUTdl1w
    SWAG - part of contributor/fan pipeline
        Sajith (core dev) shares cautionary tale of `curl` sticker swag:
            https://daniel.haxx.se/blog/2021/05/28/giving-away-an-insane-amount-of-curl-stickers/
        Jean-Paul (core dev) "all swag is useless" (stickers, mugs)
            brief tour of JP's useless sticker collection
            suggestions for branded security hardware: 
                Yubi keys
                pre-loaded flash drives that are a self-contained Tahoe instance
                plug in, have a Tahoe node, works on all major platforms

GOVERNANCE
    Items decided for Tuesday's meeting
    All items should be framed in the form of: what is the outcome we want?

TBD but must be scheduled at GOVERNANCE eventually:
    FOSdem meetings should be scheduled
    Getting a new domain/getting rights to our current domain
        Domain not urgent until needed for infra
        But yea, mailing list 
        Worst case scenario, we get YET ANOTHER domain ahead of getting permissions
        We currently have three domain names pointing towards us 
        Pro-tip: once your organization gets a domain name that is visited by your 
        users, you MUST NEVER LET IT FALL INTO ENEMY HANDS or they will defile it mightily

PS once you claim a name, you are never allowed to give it up, otherwise 1/2 of your engagement will think it's you
  
Tuesday, May 25
_______________________________________________________________________
PRESENT: May-Lee, Sajith, meejah, Jean-Paul, teratorn, Anxhelo

Today we all got to meet Anxhelo (new Web Dev from BASICS)
*New Contributor* teratorn from the IRC also joined

GOVERNANCE
    Community channel - ideas and when to vote?
        meejah (core dev) made a ticket: https://tahoe-lafs.org/trac/tahoe-lafs/ticket/3721
        We have moved off freenode.net and onto Libera.chat
        The Slack bridge is broken and may never come back

    GBS RfP https://cryptpad.fr/pad/#/3/pad/edit/39b52aeb24c546044f22c6e111252220/
        Everyone has been asked to look at the scope and try group items in a 
        manner that would be digestible for a security firm 
     
OTHER DOCS TO REVIEW (no urgency):
Web Dev Onboarding doc was commented on and put into use on Wednesday, May 26
Web Dev Onboarding process
  https://cryptpad.fr/pad/#/3/pad/edit/441aaca21dad3f0a75cf6ef0b482af6f/

Testing and Release Manager retrospective - still being processed
  https://cryptpad.fr/pad/#/3/pad/edit/e4ba29febafd61c15f1e1de9d461a258/

Friday, May 21
_______________________________________________________________________
PRESENT: Sajith, May-Lee

LIGHTNING TALK w/ Jason Snell rescheduled; possible collaboration with Michelle
Ledddon and Julia-Scott Stevenson

INSPO/Revolution vibes:
Freenode kerfuffle? Actions taken:
  - #tahoe-lafs on Libera.chat
  - need to do a little governance on this one, likely Tuesday
  - There's also https://tahoe-lafs.zulipchat.com, if not as an IRC
    alternative, as a Slack alternative.
  - OFTC might be a good choice, but I2P has control of #tahoe-lafs

Tuesday, May 18
_______________________________________________________________________

Jean-Paul and Sajith attended and discussed the below items:

ROADMAP

We need to discuss and document the roadmap somewhere.  Trac is not
the preferred place to hash out the roadmap.  Perhaps we could use
the community repository for this.

Some wishes for the future (other than shipping Python 3 port):

  1. Shipping Grid Manager
  2. Non-foolscap storage servers and introducer
  3. Re-engineering the API
  4. The WUI should be separated from Tahoe-LAFS proper
  5. Improving responsiveness

We could aim for 1 and 2 in 2020.  We need to discuss 3 and 4.

Regarding responsiveness: tahoe-lafs "feels" slow from a user
perspective.  As in, `tahoe --help` takes a little bit of time just to
print the help message.
  
Regarding ZKAP, Chrome extension, other integrations, etc: at the
moment, we do not have enough information in order to discuss them.

Regarding netifaces: maintenance might be taken up by a team within
Red Hat.  That is good news.

Did not discuss onboarding doc or retrospective doc, since they
require May-Lee's presence.

Regarding tickets: we looked at the tickets from the past week.

- Python 3 porting: 6 new tickets, 4 closed (itamarst)
- Others:
   - #3710: "tahoe get" emits HTML for dircaps (meejah)
   - #3711: release checklist update (meejah)
   - #3713: README update (exarkun)
   - #3712: Nix packaging update (exarkun)

Not sure if #3710 ("tahoe get <dircap>" emits HTML), not sure if that
behavior is a regression or not.  #3711, #3712, and #3713 are closed,
with corresponding pull requests.

Old timey ticket: We looked at #1942 ("Replace google chart in wui
with d3.js: it leaks information")

  https://tahoe-lafs.org/trac/tahoe-lafs/ticket/1942

This was interesting because there ever was a chart in the web UI was
news to me.  Ticket #1942 was closed today, with the resolution that
we will not fix it.  Google Chart API usage has been long removed, the
wui has not produced any charts in a long time, and the WUI should be
a separate project anyway.


Friday, May 14
_______________________________________________________________________
SHOUT OUT TO ITAMAR (AGAIN):
all integration tests now pass on python 3 too
(at this point you should just assume all code has to be python 3 compatible)

Sajith (core dev) has volunteered to run the meeting Tuesday

Testing and Release Manager contract ended by BASICS/Internews
  
INSPO AND ANTI-ANTI-PATTERNING 
  NICE. A lot of good work got done this week, healthy PRs and good channel
  convos :)

  LoneTech is a new contributor!

  Rants and discussions:
    Current newfangled fad of meddling kids trying to get Typing into Python
    All of our complex testing needs (Windows, user testing, coverage complete?)
    Implementing a Tahoe-LAFS browser extension and what that would entail

  Conferences:
    May-Lee (community manager) wants to start sending our folks to Conferences
    M-L suggested Sajith represent us/present at FOSSdem 2022,
    suggested Jean-Paul (core dev) represent us/present at Haskell Love 2021
    Also believes we should find someone(s) for EuroPython/PyConDE 2021
  
  Tahoe-LAFS Summit 2021:
   Suggested to add a day or so on either end of the LA Summit in Berlin
   Would be an efficient use of resources for Core Team 
   Would not replace a larger, more general Summit, either online or IRL
    Discussion: gather.town, theonline.town as virtual summit tools

  Professional development:
    May-Lee wants to know if people want PD/what would they want?
    No promises, but can present the idea to the Board 

Tuesday, May 11
_______________________________________________________________________
GOVERNANCE
* SHOUT OUT TO ITAMAR 
    Python 3 porting milestone: ALL UNIT TESTS PASS ON PYTHON 3
    (don't get too excited; we're still porting ;)

* Release 1.15.1 completed internally; brought up to date

* Next Lightning Talk May 21: Jason Snell/EEG Music demo/Talk: privacy and security issues
  of brain interface devices (collaborated with Michelle Leddon, Julia Scott-Stevenson as 
  part of the Assembly of Privacy Doxographers and Liz/Least Authority)
  https://leastauthority.com/blog/privy-to-will-be-featured-at-copenhagen-international-documentary-film-festival/

* UPDATES:
    Liz (Board) receptive to podcast idea
    May-Lee (community manager) working on Discourse/OAuth with Sajith (core dev)
    Jitsi issue being worked on
