# 2022-11-08

[Link to This Document](https://hackmd.io/@May-Lee/r1vptMWBi/edit)

----------

**PRESENT:**
meejah, Fenn, Jean-Paul, May-Lee
----------

**ACTION ITEMS/RESOLUTIONS:**  
Action Items:
- [meejah, jean-paul] Review Summit notes by end-of-day 2022-11-09 and approve or suggest changes
- [May-Lee] schedule meeting w/Liz for budget
- [May-Lee] schedule meeting with Board for November

**DEFERRED ITEMS:**  

----------

**AGENDA:**

UPDATES:  
- Credit Card from Divvy has migrated
- Aspiration FY23 Budget Template received (May-Lee, Liz)
- Governance mailing list summary (Jean-Paul)
    - The list is set up and the question is who should be the list admins
    - It will be the same people: Sajith, meejah and May-Lee
- Outreach: Emailed Fenn, Messaged Abigail on LinkedIn
- Itamar feedback:
    - Now: Do GBS
    - Next step: replacement for the rest of foolscap
    - Also possible: Make everything go fast for user
        - Write tests for how fast that is now
        - Write in Rust then bind in Python
        - Could we set some performance goals/time box exploration
        - Integration tests for performance could be written
    - Also possible: Make server more scalable
    - Oh and: Make a library version any python application can use

URGENT:
- what's urgent? Budget - See Below

GOVERNANCE/DISCUSSION:
- Review of Summit notes; additions and addendums (May-Lee)
    - [Draft Here](https://hackmd.io/@May-Lee/H1xIw-ENs)
- Steps for Aspiration FY23 Budget (Due November 15)(May-Lee)
    - What will technical contributors recommend to the board as priorities for next year? (Jean-Paul)
        - Replace the rest of foolscap - budget two developer months
        - These goals, and we have 4 - 5 contributors
        - Make budget big enough so that if everyone works what they want to do
        - What will it take to keep those people on the payroll
            - Put the priorities in order at least
            - We have these people who are interested in working
        - meejah - 4 - 5 days/Mo
        - Jean-Paul - 28 hours/Mo
        - Fenn - 20 hrs/week
        - Itamar - about 20 hrs/month
        - May-Lee - 5 - 10 hrs/week
    - Possible TODOs:
        - Meet with Board w/updated Budget
            - Liz and May-Lee have Budget Template from Aspiration
                - Budget does not fit our current
                - Merch - T-Shirts, Sock
                - Conference attendance/presentation - outward
                - Tahoe-Con 3 - Depends on LA
        - Compare roadmap items w/Budget
            - Should be scheduled for next Int Governance meeting
            - Get possible dates
            - Meeting with the Board needs to be scheduled (May-Lee)
            - See Liz's email from August 24
                - 23 November on (exclu w/thurs/fri of Thanksgiving)
                - If any of them would have ideas on things to spend money on
        - Contact Gunnar RE: Snake Devs Strategy
- Should agenda item discussion items be required to be questions? (Jean-Paul)
    - Yes, love this idea, possibly started with question words, such as How, Who, Where and What? But no Why!
    - Do not ask why.
- Can we meet on these dates for next Governance meetings:
    - Tuesday, December 6
    - Tuesday, January 10
    - Tuesday, February 7
